BIG DATA PROCESSING LAB
* Mandatory
1. Perform setting up and Installing Hadoop in any of the three operating modes:
Standalone, Pseudo distributed, Fully distributed.*
2. Explore the various shell commands in Hadoop.
3. Implement the following file management tasks in Hadoop:
● Adding Files and Directories
● Retrieving Files
● Deleting Files
4. Implement a word count program using Map Reduce.
5. Write a R program to find the factorial and check for palindromes.*
6. Write a R program to solve linear regression and make predictions.*
7. Write a R program to solve logistic regression.*
8. Implement statistical operations using R.*
9. Implement a program to find variance, covariance and correlation between different types
of attributes.*
10. Implement SVM/Decision tree Classifier.*
11. Implement clustering algorithm.*
12. To explore Hive with its basic commands
13. Write Pig Latin scripts to sort, group, join, project, and filter your data.
14. Install, Deploy and configure Apache Spark.

BIG DATA PROCESSING LAB - PRACTICE QUESTIONS
1. Write a MapReduce Program to retrieve data from documents.
2. Write word count program that only count the words starting with 'a'
3. Write a word count program that only counts the words whose length is longer than 10.
4. Using the structure of the Word Count program, write a Hadoop program that calculates
the average word length of all words that start with each character.
5. Implement matrix multiplication with Hadoop Map Reduce
6. Write a Map Reduce program for removing stop words from the given text files.
7. Write a MapReduce Program to count the number of lines in a document.
8. Write Pig Latin script to count the number of occurrences of each word in an input text
file.
9. Write a program to simulate Singular Value Decomposition
10. Write a program to simulate PCA.
11. Write a single Spark application that:
a. Transposes the original Amazon food dataset, obtaining a Pair RDD of the type:
user-id – list of the product-ids reviewed by user-id
b. Counts the frequencies of all the pairs of products reviewed together;
c. Writes on the output folder all the pairs of products that appear more than once
and their frequencies.
d. The pairs of products must be sorted by frequency..
12. Write a program to implement a stop word elimination problem. Input: A large textual file
containing one sentence per line. A small file containing a set of Stop Words (One Stop
Word per line) Output:A textual file containing the same sentences of the large input file
without the words appearing in the small file
13. Implement matrix multiplication with Map Reduce.
14. Implement basic Pig Latin Scripts based on different scenarios.
15. Implement Frequent Item set algorithm
16. Implement Clustering algorithm
17. Implement Page Rank algorithm
18. Implement Bloom Filter
19. Write a R program to create a sequence of numbers from 20 to 50 and find the mean of
numbers from 20 to 60 and sum of numbers from 51 to 91.
20. Write a R program to create a vector which contains 10 random integer values between -50
and +50.
21. Write a R program to find the maximum and the minimum value of a given vector.
22. Write a R program to get the unique elements of a given string and unique numbers of
vectors.
23. Write a R program to create a list of random numbers in normal distribution and count
occurrences of each value.
24. Write a R program to read the .csv file and display the content.
25. Write a R program to create an array, passing in a vector of values and a vector of
dimensions. Also provide names for each dimension.
26. Write a R program to create a simple bar plot of five subjects’ marks.
COMPUTER SCIENCE AND ENGINEERING (DATA SCIENCE)
27. Write a R program to compute the sum, mean and product of a given vector element.
28. Write a R program to create a Data Frames which contain details of 5 employees and
display the details.
